# Incident: 2024-12-03 19-29-00

## Summary

On December 3 2024, 3 users were unable to order pizzas as they received an error when trying to submit an order between the hour of 18:39 and 19:05. The event was triggered by a change to the pizza factory url that the server uses to process orders. It appears that a malicious actor was able to change the pizza factory url.

The url change resulted in a 500 error code everytime a user attempted to submit a pizza order. The event was detected by in the Grafana dashboard which has an alert for abnormally high number of failed pizza orders. The team was notified by this alert and stated working on the event by trying to replicated the error. They manually tested ordering pizzas and received a 500 error code. They inspected the payload returned by ordering a pizza and notied an additional parameter called reportURl that came with the error respense. They then navigated to the Url which fixed the issue. This incident affected 100% of the active users.

## Detection

The incident was detected by an automatic alert was triggered and the JWT Pizza DevOps were notified through a push notification. The user on schedule silenced the push notification and didn't respond until the 2nd push notification was sent which was acknowledged.

In the future, stronger alerts will be sent to the team so that they aren't so easily dismissed like a phone call.

## Impact

For 30 minutes between 18:34 and 19:04 on 12/3/2024, users were unable to make orders through the JWT pizza website.

This incident affected 3 custormers which was 100% of service users, who experienced a 500 error message when clicking "Pay Now" button.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.


- _03:26_ - Developer clicked a suspicious button labelled "I'm ready for chaos!"
- _18:39_ - Alert triggered as pizza orders were failing at high rate
- _18:39_ - Developer received push notification and silenced it
- _18:50_ - Developer received second push notification and acknowledged it
- _18:51_ - Developer analyzed metrics on the grafana dashboard
- _18:59_ - Developer attempted to recreate bug through the pizza order
- _19:01_ - Ordering returns a 500 error with the response: {"Message": "Failed to fulfill order at factory", "reportUrl": "***"}
- _19:03_ - Developer used the reportUrl as a url as attempt to fix the error
- _19:03_ - A Success message was displayed upon using the url
- _19:04_ - Developer navigated back to grafana dashboard to analyze metrics to see if orders are succeeding again
- _19:05_ - Developer set the alert as solved 
- _03:09_ - Ordering from website still works.

## Response

Jared Moon received a push notification at 18:39 and came online at 18:50. He went to the Grafana dashboard and noticed the failing orders. There was a delay as the on-call engineer silence the notification and waited til the second push notification.

# Root cause

The root cause was a user clicking a button to insert chaos to the JWT Pizza website.

## Resolution

The service was restored after the developer used the reportUrl which was given along the error message. The incident was deemed over when pizzas were able to be successfully order from the website and no new pizza ordering errors were recorded in the grafana dashboard.

Time to mitigation could be improved by having more on-call engineers to address the issue more rapidly.

# Prevention

The team at this point doesn't see any other previous incidents that have the same root cause as this case.

# Action items

1. Instruct engineers and developers to avoid pressing mysterious buttons that will introduce chaos into the system.